OK so let's create the training data set.
We are after something like this.
In this case we have three features so sorry stock prices in the past of course in our example we are
going to have 40 features.
So x1 x2 x 3 up to x 40 because we are going to press the exact target variable based on 40 stocks of
values in the past.
So we are after something like this.
We have the features so X-1 avail you X-2 they'll you extreme value.
And we have the target of a valuable accordingly.
Then we shifted the window Wanstead to the right.
And again we are going to get the stock prices from the historical data set in order to construct the
training data set.
And what's very important because if we shift this window one step to the right there are going to be
approximately the same values in the training data set.
So what does it mean.
We have the first throw and the second row is going to have the same they'll use except for the last
one.
So this we want to is the same as P-T one does.
The one story is the same as the 2 and so on because we shaved the window one step to the right.
There's going to be the same values as far as the given stock price is concerned.
So we just have to create a one dimensional array for the features and a one dimensional array for the
target values.
We have to create a for loop y to start with 40.
Basically disvalue is the end of the array.
So if we take a look at the training sakte we have it one thousand two hundred fifty two rows in the
training data set.
So that's why we are going to have this value as the upper bound.
But why to start with 40.
Because when we construct the first sample.
So in this case as you can see the first target variable is going to be the fourth item because we calculate
the target value based on previous values.
This is how a machine learning algorithm works.
We have some training data and we have the target values.
So in this case the first 40 values are going to be the features and the next item is going to be the
target.
OK so we use the previous 40 prices in order to forecast the next one.
So that's why we get the values from the skilled training set.
This has something to do with the role we index and it does have something to do with the Carlen index
the Cullom index is quite straightforward because we just have a single Culham the adjusted closing
prices.
That's why we use zero.
So zero represents the first column.
We have just a single column.
OK but what about this one.
It means that we are going to consider the values as far as our index is concerned.
So I'm minus 40 who we have to substract 40 because we have 40 features.
So we are going to handle the items starting from minus 40 up to.
What is it mean that this is exactly what we are after that the first three items are the features.
And the next item is the target variable.
The first 40 items are the training features and the next item is the target of a viable X train is
the training features.
Why train is the training target variable.
So this is how we create these two dimensional array basically for the features and for the target.
And then we would like to end up with the non-pay arrays so that's why we use pi array on the X Thrain
and the wine train.
Then if we want to use SDM architecture we have to reshape these non-pay arrays.
So we would like to end up with something like this.
We have three dimensions.
The number of total samples the number of features and one because we have just a single target variable.
We would like to predict the stock price to morrow.
Okay that's why we have one.
What about the number of features.
The number of features is equal to 40 but we are able to get it from the X thrain dot shape one is going
to return the number of features.
Basically the number of columns as far as the features are concerned here we have three features.
But as far as the concrete implementation is concerned we have 40 features.
Okay.
So this is equal to 40 and this is equal to the total number of samples.
So in the training data set we have to calculate the number of fros okay and we can get this well you
with the help of this shape.
Zero.
So basically this is the last transformation we have to use in order to use these values with recurrent
now and that work and Alice YEM architecture.
So we just have to define the number of samples number of features and the number of target variables.
This is how we end up with a three dimensional array.
OK so this is the X Graines So the features for the training data set.
And we have the target of triable is for the training data sadly adjusted closing prices tomorrow ok
in the next lecture we are going to talk about how to build the LSD model.
Thanks for watching.